# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns
Performing analysis on Kickstart data to uncover trends---
## Overview
The purpose of the Kickstarter Analysis was to assist Louis who is a playwright in evaluating her options to launch a Kickstarter campaign. In the analysis data is pulled from successful, failed, canceled, and live fundraiser campaigns internationally and in the US. In the Kickstarter database and sheet we organized information through color categories and set conditional filters for percentages of funded campaigns.  We also created parent and subcategories to assist in the creation of pivot tables---
## Analysis and Challenges
In performing the analysis I used multiple functions including VLOOKUPS, COUNTIFS, and statistical functions. For VLOOKUPS in the Edinburg Research sheet we used the VLOOKUP function to quickly pull data from the Kickstarter page to populate this table including play names and additional information from that row such as goals, pledged amounts, average donations, and number of backers. Instead of using Control + F which can be time intensive, it was more appropriate to use the VLOOKUP or to pull specific column content. This was a challenging portion for me, but I understood it as I started to experiment with the functions more.
COUNTIFS function in the Outcomes Based on Goals sheet was used to pull data from the Kickstarter sheet to pull numerical values in various ranges to determine how many were successful, failed, or canceled. From there I used those outcomes to calculate the percentages for charting. This is a more efficient method of pulling data, than having to search through thousands of rows of data and pulling it individually. This became easier to use as I was able to use the $ to make cells and their properties static when pasting this formula to the entire sheet.
While not used in the graded portion of this project, there is also a descriptive statistics sheet. This sheet utilized functions such as MEDIAN, AVERAGE, and QUARTILE.EXC to calculate statistical information on failed and successful US campaigns. I did not find as much difficulty in working this portion as it was a bit more straightforward for calculations and charting.--- 
## Results
When reviewing the Theater Outcomes by Launch Date we can conclude that campaigns were most successful in the summer months May, June, and started to decline in July. Another conclusion is that few to none were canceled. 
In the outcomes based on goals sheet, I can determine that the higher the goal the less successful that the campaign and more likely to fail. However, this is based on all regions, which could possibly vary if additional filters are added. This could be one of the limitations. Some other options for marking tables could include identifying live shows and their trends or possibly changing this to reflect dates of successful and failures instead of goal amounts.
